
# Hospital Management System (HMS)

## Overview
The Hospital Management System (HMS) is an interactive software designed to streamline the operations within a medical clinic. The system manages user roles such as doctors, nurses, receptionists, and an admin, each with specific responsibilities to efficiently manage patients, appointments, and clinic workflows.
## Getting Started
### Prerequisites
Before running the Hospital Management System, ensure you have the following:

- Java Development Kit (JDK) installed on your machine.
- MySQL Workbench (for database design and management).
- JavaFX libraries set up in your development environment (e.g., IntelliJ IDEA).

### How to Run the Project
- Clone the repository from GitHub using
``` bash
 git clone https://github.com/Zanaad/Hospital-Management-System.git
```
- Open the project in IntelliJ IDEA.
- Ensure all necessary libraries are included in the project.
- Configure the database connection settings in DatabaseUtil.java.
- Run the application by starting the Main class.

## System Features
### Login System
Users can log in based on their roles (admin, doctor, nurse, or receptionist), and their dashboard provides functionalities specific to their roles. Staff credentials (ID and password) are automatically generated by the system, which staff can later update in their profiles.

The system supports four distinct roles, each with specific functionalities tailored to their responsibilities:

### Admin
- Add, delete, or update staff information, including doctors, nurses, and receptionists.
- Change profile details, including updating password.
### Doctor

- Add and manage patient information.
- Add new treatments for patients.
- Update their profile and change their password.
### Nurse

- Manage hospital beds and allocate resources.
- Oversee blood donations.
- Register births, deaths, and surgeries.
### Receptionist

- Register new patients and manage patient records.
- Update patient profiles as needed.

## Contributors
- Zana Ademi
- Yllka Kastrati
- Fatjeta Gashi
- Agnesa Hulaj
- Adea Lluhani
- Adea Tabaku
